Mihai's collection of tools and projects.
Many of the nested subdirectories contain a tool or project.
Below is an overview of the root structure and a short project selection.

Originally at https://github.com/MihaiB/mihaib this may have forks & backups.

toolbox	Useful tools and project examples which try to use good practices
	for development and testing. See the project's README for how to build
	the tools (one by one or all at once), particularly how to allow the
	tools to use each other at build time or runtime. These dependencies
	are present to allow composition and reuse, but avoid strong coupling.
forge	A collection of programs and notes
lethe	Configuration


A few items which may be of interest:

toolbox/JEncConv/	http://jencconv.sf.net
	Convert the encoding of text files, optionally transforming the text,
	from either a GUI or the command-line.
	It can help you find the correct encoding for a file by detecting
	possible encodings and letting you preview the file with each one.
	It can also transform the text in any way (e.g. remove diacritics,
	replace some symbols, alter spacing or line endings) via plug-ins.
	Plug-ins are trivial to write and add to the already compiled program
	(the website has a complete example).
	See the project's website above for details.

toolbox/PyEncConv/	http://pyencconv.sf.net
	Python project, similar to the Java JEncConv above.

toolbox/DiceLottery/	http://dicelottery.sf.net
	Map (random) events between two domains, in a verifiable and fair
	(unbiased) way. For example:
	― use the National Lottery result to choose which of your friends gets
	a prize
	― if you're a teacher, look at the wall clock (e.g. its second or
	minute hand) to select which student to examine next
	― if you want to play the lottery but don't know which numbers to
	choose, you can toss a coin several times (or throw a pair of dice, or
	draw playing cards from a deck, i.e. use any available source of random
	events) and convert them to lottery numbers to play
	See the project's website above for details.

toolbox/book-pub/	Format a book for publishing as PDF and EPUB (html).
	You provide the book as plain text (UTF-8) files.

toolbox/file-transfer/	Copy files between two computers, across the network.
	Without administrator privileges, without enabling any (e.g. network,
	sharing) services, regardless of which operating system each of the
	computers is running.
	The project describes a network protocol and implements it in a
	platform-independent program. Please use the Java implementation.

toolbox/money-trail/	Simple finance management
	A simple but effective model for finance management, with several ways
	to generate reports from the data.
	Implemented as a Go webserver storing data in SQLite.
	Users can enter and edit data from a dynamic web UI which uses
	JavaScript and Go templates.

toolbox/textproc/	Go text-processing library.
	Defines a Go interface for ‘text filters’ which transform text.
	These can be chained, with the output of one filter feeding the next.
	The uses for this (e.g. counting character or word frequencies,
	formatting text) are only limited by our imagination.
	You can view the formatted docs and click through to the source code
	e.g. here: http://godoc.org/github.com/MihaiB/mihaib/toolbox/textproc
	The following command-line tool makes this library available for use.

toolbox/textproc/cmd/	Command-line tool making available the above Go
	text-processing library (toolbox/textproc/).
	Some examples are simple text formatting and calculating frequencies
	(most common characters or words, or groups of characters or words).

forge/tcp-forward/	Program which listens on a local port and forwards
	all TCP connections to a specific IP and port. It can also introduce
	delays before and during the data transfer, to simulate a slow network.

forge/eclipse-test/	Automated runner for Eclipse JUnit run configurations.
	Consists of 3 decoupled tools (a test runner, a webserver to examine
	the test results, and an email notifier with new test failures).
	The tools all work with JUnit's XML format but don't know about each
	other, so each can be improved or replaced independently of the others.

forge/movewater/	Solve problems involving moving liquids between vessels
	(e.g. you start with an 8 liter vessel filled with water, and two
	empty vessels of 3 and 5 liter capacities. You want to obtain 4 liters
	of water in one vessel). Has both a GUI and a command-line interface,
	and a few options to solve a slightly more general class of problems.

forge/unblock/	Solve the popular ‘Unblock Me’ game found on smartphones.
