creative-writing.now.com

SHOW instead of TELLING.

Don't become a prisoner of your outline. Feel free to change it along the way as you develop a feel for the story.

Brainstorm.
Write down some info about your main character (or characters).
Normally your novel will be about an important problem the main character has to solve, or an important goal they want to achieve. It's the most important thing in the world to your character right now. Otherwise the readers won't care about it either.
List terrible difficulties between the character and the goal/solution.
Main events that will move your character toward or away from solving the central problem / goal.
For each main event, imagine some scenes. For each scene: who are the main characters? Who is the viewpoint character (the readers will see the scene through his eyes)? Where does it happen? What happens? What does the scene ACCOMPLISH in the novel? Does it move the character TOWARD or FURTHER AWAY from his objective?
Every scene should have a purpose:
– move the character toward or away from the goal / solving the problem
– deepen the reader's understanding of the character or situation

Dialogue:
Get to know your characters deeply. Play out their conversations in your head. Try saying their lines out loud, then write it down.
Clean up the dialogue: effective dialogue is not the same as the way people really speak. E.g. in movies people tend to hang up a lot. You need to be authentic, capture the character's voice, and cut it at the right moments.

Point of View narration:
First Person
You can't write about things the character can't see or know.
Directness – you give the reader a first-hand perspective on the story.
Voice, Intimacy – your reader gets to know the character by listening to him.
Third Person
He may be completely outside the action, and even supernaturally see everything that's going on in more places at once: omniscient narrator. Even access to some of the character's thoughts.
You can locate the narrator partly inside a character's head: the effect is similar to writing in the first person: the character tells the story. But you're not limited by his voice. Limiting the narrator to the character's perspective can make readers feel more intensely involved with the character.
Second person
Treats the reader as the story's character. The narrator talks all the time about "you did this", "you did that". More unusual and harder to pull off.

Get to know your characters deeply (and write extensive profiles for them). Don't stuff all this info into your story, overwhelming your readers. Having developed a deep knowledge of the character yourself, shape your story and let readers get to know the character gradually: every time you put him in a situation, ask yourself what he would do, what would happen: trust the answers to these question and don't force characters to act in ways not natural for them: it will feel false to the readers.

For there to be a story, something has to move, to change, to go from A to B.
– physical event (A: killer picks off people in the village; B = gets arrested)
– decision (A: character wants to be a lawyer like his father; B = decides to be a ballet dancer)
– change in relationship (A = they hate each other; B = they fall in love)
– change in person (A = he's a selfish jerk; B = less of a jerk)
– change in the reader's understanding of a situation (A = character appears to be a murderer; B = reader realizes the character is innocent)
The change can even be the realization that there will be no change (A = character dreams to escape her small town; B = her dream is shown to be hopeless).
The Plot: the roadmap that takes you from A to B. "Happily ever after" is not a story: nothing happens anymore. The story is how you get to the ending (happy or sad).

For there to be a story, something must happen: narrative conflict is what makes it happen: a conflict between characters, a character's internal conflict, a conflict between a character and an impersonal force (nature).
Don't let your characters get comfortable too early in your story: stir things up:
– what's something your character desperatly wants? what difficulties are in the way?
– what would force your character to do something he/she is really uncomfortable with? and feels uncapable of doing?
If you have a specific conflict in mind that you want to write about: be careful not to skimp on character development. Make your character real to the readers so they care what happens to him.

Daydream technique
Writers tend to be especially observant: they notice and remember small details. Such details, transplanted into imagined scenes, make them seem real.
Reading fiction can seem like entering a dream. Writing it is more like daydreaming. Before you write a scene, daydream it. Focus on making it as vivid and detailed as possible. Pay attention to all your senses. Only then, write: describe it as clearly as possible. Concentrate on being accurate and specific, don't worry about choosing the right words: you can go back and improve the writing later.

Story Climax
Clash between two opposing forces. Suspense comes with the reader's uncertainty about which side is going to win. It will be more powerful if:
– you've developed convincing characters, or characters that your reader cares about.
– you've clearly established what's at stake; the reader has to believe the outcome is important.
Important themes do not equal an important story.
Build up to the climax, the reader's anticipation increases suspense.
Show it, don't tell it: do not give a quick summary of events.

Powerful Descriptions
The more specific information you give the reader, the closer his mental picture will be to the one you intended. It also makes the reader's experience more enjoyable. Don't overdo it by exaggerrating with adjectives and adverbs: don't state the obvious (rectangular window) and use more specific words when possible (‘gazing’ instead of ‘looking pensively’) so you don't make the sentences feel clunky or overloaded with words.
